README.md, before:


![Works on my machine](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/works-on-my-machine.svg)

# Architecture

BG upgrades is using the **django** framework at its core.

The overall architecture should be pretty standard with one central form generated from `tuckbox/templates/pattern_form.html.j2`

It uses Redis and Celery to process the requests asynchronously (and report on progress).

# Requirements

* Python 3 (possibly also python3.X-dev on ubuntu)
* `imagemagick`
* `nginx` (for full deployment)
* `redis`
* [`chromedriver`](https://chromedriver.chromium.org/)

# Development

To setup an environment, use virtualenv and install the packages listed in requirements.txt

    $ virtualenv [--python=/your/path/to/python3] venv
    $ source venv/bin/activate
    $ pip install -r requirements.txt
    $ webdrivermanager chrome --linkpath [folder in your PATH]

To run the tests:

    $ ./manage.py test --parallel

To get coverage report on the tests:

    $ coverage run --source='.' --omit='venv/*' manage.py test --parallel
    $ coverage report

or

    $ coverage html

## Test server

    $ redis-server
    $ watchmedo auto-restart --directory=./ --pattern="*.py" --recursive -- celery -A bg_upgrades worker -l info

then use Django's test server

    $ ./manage.py migrate && ./manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000

or through uwsgi

    $ uwsgi --http :8000 --module django_app/bg_upgrades.wsgi

### Generate a SSH certificate for local SSH testing:

     openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -sha256 -days 3650 -nodes -keyout localhost.key -out localhost.crt -subj "/CN=localhost" -addext "subjectAltName=DNS:localhost,IP:127.0.0.1"

# Startup / Deploy

To deploy, you need to setup those environment variables:

* `DJANGO_DEBUG` to 'False'
* `DJANGO_SECRET_KEY`. This can be generated:

    $ python -c 'from django.core.management.utils import get_random_secret_key; print(get_random_secret_key())'

* `DJANGO_PROJECT_PATH` to the folder with the project

Configuration for nginx should be updated with the right paths and placed in the right folder
* `/usr/local/etc/nginx/servers/` on mac
* `/etc/nginx/servers/` on linux


Start all those different services:

    $ redis-server
    $ celery -A bg_upgrades worker -l info

    $ ./manage.py migrate
    $ ./manage.py collectstatic

    $ uwsgi --ini uwsgi.ini

Start the nginx server
    $ brew services restart nginx

    $ sudo /etc/init.d/nginx restart

Optionally:

    $ flower -A bg_upgrades

The overall deployment framework is using nginx and uWSGI as documented (here)[https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorials/Django_and_nginx.html].

# SSL / TLS

Set the environment variables: `DOMAIN` to bg-upgrades.net and `WILDCARD` to `*.$DOMAIN`

    $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:certbot/certbot
    $ sudo apt install python-certbot-nginx
    $ sudo certbot -d $DOMAIN -d $WILDCARD --nginx --preferred-challenges dns certonly

Instructions also (here)[https://www.nginx.com/blog/using-free-ssltls-certificates-from-lets-encrypt-with-nginx/]

# Maintenance

To find packages that need to be updated, you can check [this link](https://requires.io/github/MatthieuLJ/bg_upgrades/requirements/?branch=master) or run `$ pip list --outdated`

Then update:

    $ pip install <package_name> --upgrade

Whenever the packages change, record the packages:

    $ pip-chill > requirements.txt

When the reference data needs to change for the graphics tests, run:

    $ python -m tuckbox.test.tests_box

If running into permissions issues for using 'PDF' in ImageMagick, follow [those instructions](https://stackoverflow.com/a/59193253)

# Docker

Start with `docker-compose up -d` (docker desktop needs to be running).

To test locally, see the procedure to create an SSL certificate locally. Or use the nginx configuration file that does not use SSL.

To run in production, change docker-compose to use Dockerfile.prod for the nginx service (the main change is to point to local SSL certificates) and the django environment variables (change the secret on the real site)

# Dependencies

The libraries this web application uses:

* [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
* [Redis](https://redis.io/)
* [Celery](https://docs.celeryproject.org/)
* [ImageMagick](https://imagemagick.org/)
* [Wand](https://docs.wand-py.org/)
* [Bootstrap CSS](https://getbootstrap.com/)
* [jQuery](https://jquery.com/)
* [ThreeJS](https://threejs.org/)
* [Vanilla picker (color picker)](https://github.com/Sphinxxxx/vanilla-picker)
* [Name That Color](https://chir.ag/projects/ntc/)

Commit message:

Documenting the setup to renew SSL certificate

README.md, after:


![Works on my machine](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/works-on-my-machine.svg)

# Architecture

BG upgrades is using the **django** framework at its core.

The overall architecture should be pretty standard with one central form generated from `tuckbox/templates/pattern_form.html.j2`

It uses Redis and Celery to process the requests asynchronously (and report on progress).

# Requirements

* Python 3 (possibly also python3.X-dev on ubuntu)
* `imagemagick`
* `nginx` (for full deployment)
* `redis`
* [`chromedriver`](https://chromedriver.chromium.org/)

# Development

To setup an environment, use virtualenv and install the packages listed in requirements.txt

    $ virtualenv [--python=/your/path/to/python3] venv
    $ source venv/bin/activate
    $ pip install -r requirements.txt
    $ webdrivermanager chrome --linkpath [folder in your PATH]

To run the tests:

    $ ./manage.py test --parallel

To get coverage report on the tests:

    $ coverage run --source='.' --omit='venv/*' manage.py test --parallel
    $ coverage report

or

    $ coverage html

## Test server

    $ redis-server
    $ watchmedo auto-restart --directory=./ --pattern="*.py" --recursive -- celery -A bg_upgrades worker -l info

then use Django's test server

    $ ./manage.py migrate && ./manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000

or through uwsgi

    $ uwsgi --http :8000 --module django_app/bg_upgrades.wsgi

### Generate a SSH certificate for local SSH testing:

     openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -sha256 -days 3650 -nodes -keyout localhost.key -out localhost.crt -subj "/CN=localhost" -addext "subjectAltName=DNS:localhost,IP:127.0.0.1"

# Startup / Deploy

To deploy, you need to setup those environment variables:

* `DJANGO_DEBUG` to 'False'
* `DJANGO_SECRET_KEY`. This can be generated:

    $ python -c 'from django.core.management.utils import get_random_secret_key; print(get_random_secret_key())'

* `DJANGO_PROJECT_PATH` to the folder with the project

Configuration for nginx should be updated with the right paths and placed in the right folder
* `/usr/local/etc/nginx/servers/` on mac
* `/etc/nginx/servers/` on linux


Start all those different services:

    $ redis-server
    $ celery -A bg_upgrades worker -l info

    $ ./manage.py migrate
    $ ./manage.py collectstatic

    $ uwsgi --ini uwsgi.ini

Start the nginx server
    $ brew services restart nginx

    $ sudo /etc/init.d/nginx restart

Optionally:

    $ flower -A bg_upgrades

The overall deployment framework is using nginx and uWSGI as documented (here)[https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorials/Django_and_nginx.html].

# SSL / TLS

Set the environment variables: `DOMAIN` to bg-upgrades.net and `WILDCARD` to `*.$DOMAIN`

    $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:certbot/certbot
    $ sudo apt install python-certbot-nginx
    $ sudo certbot -d $DOMAIN -d $WILDCARD --nginx --preferred-challenges dns certonly

Instructions also (here)[https://www.nginx.com/blog/using-free-ssltls-certificates-from-lets-encrypt-with-nginx/]

# Maintenance

To find packages that need to be updated, you can check [this link](https://requires.io/github/MatthieuLJ/bg_upgrades/requirements/?branch=master) or run `$ pip list --outdated`

Then update:

    $ pip install <package_name> --upgrade

Whenever the packages change, record the packages:

    $ pip-chill > requirements.txt

When the reference data needs to change for the graphics tests, run:

    $ python -m tuckbox.test.tests_box

If running into permissions issues for using 'PDF' in ImageMagick, follow [those instructions](https://stackoverflow.com/a/59193253)

## SSL certificate

Added

```
0 3 */3 * * cd <path to project> && perl -e 'sleep int(rand(43200))' && docker compose run --rm certbot renew
```

to `/etc/cron.d/certbot/` so that every 3 days at 3am it will check to renew the SSL certificate with certbot

# Docker

Start with `docker-compose up -d` (docker desktop needs to be running).

To test locally, see the procedure to create an SSL certificate locally. Or use the nginx configuration file that does not use SSL.

To run in production, change docker-compose to use Dockerfile.prod for the nginx service (the main change is to point to local SSL certificates) and the django environment variables (change the secret on the real site)

# Dependencies

The libraries this web application uses:

* [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
* [Redis](https://redis.io/)
* [Celery](https://docs.celeryproject.org/)
* [ImageMagick](https://imagemagick.org/)
* [Wand](https://docs.wand-py.org/)
* [Bootstrap CSS](https://getbootstrap.com/)
* [jQuery](https://jquery.com/)
* [ThreeJS](https://threejs.org/)
* [Vanilla picker (color picker)](https://github.com/Sphinxxxx/vanilla-picker)
* [Name That Color](https://chir.ag/projects/ntc/)
